# random_hw_experiments
# What is this?

This repo contains my random experiments designing hardware.


#Desiging a Circuit for computing Greatest Common Diviser(GCD):

In this project, I have designed a circuit to compute the GCD of to 32 bit integer (the design is parameterized to take other width as well) numbers. To compile and run the test, you need to either install [Icarus Verilog](http://iverilog.icarus.com/) (free) or to use Cadence Simvision (need to purchase license). For now the makefile works ony with simvision but it can easily be extended to target iverilog as well. To veiw the waveforms, you can either use [GTKWave](http://gtkwave.sourceforge.net/)(free) or Simvision. To run the test,
first you need to clone this repository:

    git clone https://github.com/hossein1387/random_hw_experiments.git
    cd random_hw_experiments/GCD

Then, to compile execute the following command:

    ./do_test.cmd GCDTest.sv

or to bring up gui and waveform type:

    ./do_test.cmd GCDTest.sv gui

Either way, the GCDTest.sv will instantiate the designed GCD module and tests it by randomly injecting two integers. The GCDTest.sv is responsible to provide the clock and inputs for the Design Under Test (DUT). It also is responsible to verify the DUT outputs. The DUT will notify test when to pickup the output by pulling up the done bit for a clock cycle. The result of running this test will be as follow:

    ncsim> run
    [   1]-GCD(  97, 532): expected=   1   actual=   1  PASS
    [   2]-GCD( 718, 114): expected=   2   actual=   2  PASS
    [   3]-GCD( 979, 862): expected=   1   actual=   1  PASS
    [   4]-GCD(  90,  65): expected=   5   actual=   5  PASS
    [   5]-GCD( 409, 134): expected=   1   actual=   1  PASS
    ...
    [  99]-GCD( 658, 566): expected=   2   actual=   2  PASS
    [ 100]-GCD( 525, 605): expected=   5   actual=   5  PASS
    Simulation complete via $finish(1) at time 600 US + 0

The output shows the expected result (generated by the test) versus the actual result (calculated by the dut).
## License

All Solutions licensed under MIT License. See LICENSE.txt for further details.


## Copyright

Copyright (c) 2017 [hossein1387](http://hossein1387.github.io/).

